---
layout: homepage
---

## About Me

I am a fourth year undergraduate student from the School of Software, Jiangxi Agricultural University. Before that, I used to work with Prof.  Yingqiong Peng .

The scientific research projects I participated in at the university focused on using artificial intelligence to assist farmers in agricultural production. For example, I led the team to develop the "Sericulture Assisted Decision-making" software to provide "crop pest identification and management" services; using and optimizing three-dimensional reconstruction such as Nerf algorithms technology to better characterize and identify crops.

During my undergraduate and ongoing graduate studies, I have developed a profound interest in the fields of computer vision and computer graphics, with a particular focus on three-dimensional reconstruction, 3D scene perception, image rendering, virtual reality, augmented reality, and software programming. My aspiration is to leverage these technologies to enhance robotic assistance in human activities, thereby enriching people’s interaction with virtual environments and improving access to quality education.

In my free time, I do cross-country mountain climbing, run marathons, and play guitar and record music.


## Research Interests

- **Computer Vision:** image recognition, image generation, 
- **3D Reconstruction:** NeRF(Neural Radiation Field), neural rendering,virtual reality(VR),augmented reality(AR)
- **HCI:** Human-Computer Interaction (HCI)
- **Software Engineering:** Programming education, AI-assisted programming
- **Robot:** I work to help robots better perceive the world and interact with humans

## News
  
- **[Step. 2023]** I won the first scholarship for the fifth time!
  
- **[Aug. 2023]** I am studying in the Hong Kong Polytechnic University as an exchange student.

- **[Jun. 2023]** Our paper about image generation is accepted to CISAT 2023.

- **[Dec. 2022]** Our paper about object detection is accepted to Electronic Science Technology and Application(ISSN:2424-8460).

## Papers Under Review


{% include_relative _includes/publications.md %}
## My Project
I highly recommend browsing my past projects,if you want to know more about me!!!

（if you would like the English version of my manuscript, please let me know via email and I will send you the English version of the manuscript.）

- #### VR smart farm system——graduation thesis project
I am currently working on my graduation thesis project, which is an online 3D smart farm where users can interact with VR devices.
The significance of this project is to provide farmers with a real farm environment to teach and guide them how to manage pest problems on their farms.
At the same time, this project has a strong relationship with a national innovation and entrepreneurship project for college students that I lead.

- #### Sericulture expert intelligent decision-making system
I led the team members to develop the "Sangzhidao" Sericulture Expert Intelligent Decision-making System", which is a system that provides farmers with identification and treatment plans for mulberry tree diseases and insect pests. It is designed to help farmers improve production efficiency. The system has been initially developed and has not yet been completed release.

  [Demo Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WuoXMpO01r4)

  [My Manuscript——Chinese](https://github.com/QinghongShao-sqh/qinghong-shao/blob/main/assets/files/Sericulture%20expert%20intelligent%20decision-making%20system-Chinese.pdf)

  My main responsibilities:  pest and disease identification models, App software development, mulberry tree, pest and disease data processing .

  At present, I have obtained the "software copyright" of the relevant system version from the National Copyright Protection Center.


- #### Nerf and 3D reconstruction of crops
In the second half of 2022, I started to come into contact with NeRF (this is a very beautiful algorithm). In 2023, I continued to try to optimize the NeRF algorithm to reconstruct and render the crops in our school farmland, and made a small amount of progress. I wrote an article about this Manuscript to record.
I have strong enthusiasm and confidence in the NeRF algorithm in 3D scene reconstruction and other aspects!

  [Demo Video1](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/KvSWlHQzo3o)

  [Demo Video2](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/qfQhFOyu7GE)

  [My Manuscript——English](https://github.com/QinghongShao-sqh/qinghong-shao/blob/main/assets/files/Nerf%20and%203D%20reconstruction%20of%20crops%E2%80%94%E2%80%94English.pdf)


- #### VR racing game combined with NeRF
I completed a 3D car racing project through Unity’s novice tutorials and resources. On this basis, I imported the real-world 3D Objects and 3D large-scale scene applications generated by the NeRF algorithm. In the above 3D project, I still need advanced optimization! However, the high efficiency of NeRF can greatly promote the application of real-world scenes in VR, Unity and other 3D projects at a lower cost.

  [Demo Video](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1xh4y157Rd/?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0)

  [Demo Project](https://github.com/QinghongShao-sqh/VR-Room-Simply)

- #### Microcontroller programming
I used a microcontroller for development, completed the Snake game, and implemented functions such as infrared communication, addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.

  [Demo Video](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1tK4y1D7k3/?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0&vd_source=03387e75fde3d924cb207c0c18ffa567)



- #### LV whereabouts - travel assistant
I led my friends to develop a travel assistance app - LV Travel Assistant. Its functions include location and check-in of travel locations, bill records, and diary records.

  [Demo Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7hapXiUN-1M)

  At present, I have obtained the "software copyright" of the relevant software version from the National Copyright Protection Center.

- #### Campus second-hand trading platform
I led my friends to develop a campus second-hand trading platform that can help students on our campus trade second-hand idle items.
It had been released before and was used by classmates, but it was later closed due to technical and maintenance costs.

  At present, I have obtained the "software copyright" of the relevant software version from the National Copyright Protection Center.

- #### Fruit trading platform
I led my friends to develop a fruit trading platform to help local farmers sell fruits better through the platform.

  At present, I have obtained the "software copyright" of the relevant software version from the National Copyright Protection Center.
  
  [My Manuscript——Chines](https://github.com/QinghongShao-sqh/qinghong-shao/blob/main/assets/files/Tete%20Fruit%20Trading%20Platform%20User%20Manual%20-%20Chinese.pdf)
  

- #### Survey on willingness to pay and satisfaction with network virtual services - paper
My friends and I carried out the "Network Virtual Service Willingness to Pay and Satisfaction Survey" activity, in which I was responsible for data processing and calculations, as well as using various models, such as principal component analysis (PCA) and other methods to analyze the relevant survey results, and completed A survey paper won the second prize in the 9th Jiangxi Province "Huachuang Cup" Survey Analysis Competition.


  [My Manuscript——Chinese](https://github.com/QinghongShao-sqh/qinghong-shao/blob/main/assets/files/Survey%20on%20willingness%20to%20pay%20and%20satisfaction%20with%20network%20virtual%20services%20-%20Chinese.pdf)


- #### 3D holographic projection device (DIY).
[Demo Video](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/U0AnNKhuNc0)

- ####   smile recognition model and object recognition model
  In my freshman year, I trained a simple smile recognition model to detect whether you are smiling; and an object recognition model.
  
  [Demo Video](https://studio.youtube.com/video/wSKGgVDLMZs/edit)

- ####  [My Blog](https://blog.csdn.net/qq_40514113)
I run my blog on the CSDN platform and currently have 3,600+ fans and nearly 70,000 visits.
I will update some of my notes on software development, computer vision, 3D reconstruction, and VR/AR.

## Competitions

- 2022.12 I won the "National Inspirational Scholarship"

- 2022.5 The 13th Lanqiao Cup National Software and Information Technology Professional Talent Competition Jiangxi Division C/C++ Programming University Group B ------- First Prize

- 2022.5 "Sang Zhidao - Intelligent Decision-making System for Sericulture Experts Based on Image Recognition" won the ------- third prize in the China College Student Computer Design Competition

- 2022.3 China Collegiate Algorithm Design&Programming Challenge Contest-------Bronze Medal

- 2021.12 Asia and Pacific Mathematical Contest in Modeling Certificate of Achievement-------Second Prize

- 2021.12 "Network Virtual Service Willingness to Pay and Satisfaction Survey" won the second prize in the 9th "Huachuang Cup" Survey Analysis Competition of Jiangxi Province

- 2021.11 Won the second-class scholarship for the second semester of the 2020-2021 academic year
- 2021.5 Won the first-class scholarship for the first semester of the 2020-2021 academic year

- 2022.5 Won the first-class scholarship for the second semester of the 2021-2022 academic year
- 2022.11 Won the first-class scholarship for the first semester of the 2021-2022 school year

- 2021.2 I passed the Japanese JLPT language test-------N2 level

- 2023 ""Sangzhidao" Sericulture Expert Intelligent Decision-making System" software successfully passed the registration of computer software copyright by the National Copyright Administration

- 2023 "Tete Fruit Trading Platform" software successfully passed the registration of computer software copyright by the National Copyright Administration

- 2022.3 The "Agricultural University Second-hand Trading Platform" software successfully passed the computer software copyright registration with the National Copyright Administration

- 2022 The "Pork Rib Image Recognition System" software successfully passed the registration of computer software copyright by the National Copyright Administration

- 2022.1 "LV Travel Assistant" software successfully passed the computer software copyright registration with the National Copyright Administration


## Conference Activities

2023.8.11

What ChatGPT Can and Cannot Do, and A Chat About AIGC（by Prof. Jiebo LUO）


2023.8.7

The First Earth Observation for Ecosystem，Infrasture，and City Workshop，Topic: Human-centered geospatial data analysis（by Prof Baixiao Yao）


2023.8.4

Modular Metacognitive Digital Twin Technologies for Greener Cities & Cleaner Mobility (by Dr Haoran ZHANG)



2023.7

Asia Pacific Art and Culture Technology Forum cum the Opening of Research Centre for Cultural and Art Technology Centre and PolyU-NVIDIA Joint Research Centre



2023.6

2023 6th International Conference on Computer Information Science and Application Technology 









## Expericences
My future research interests are in combining artificial intelligence technology with human-computer interaction (HCI) and virtual reality (VR).

At the same time, I am an active open source player. I am happy to share the papers I read and use my technology to complete some products of practical significance. I have currently published 96 technical articles on the CSDN platform, and received 66,794 total visits, and 3,609 fans support my blog; at the same time, I also share some teaching videos on computer vision and paper sharing videos at Station B, and have achieved The total views are 32,879, and 409 fans support my video.

In addition, I also started a business when I was a sophomore, mainly providing customers with simple data processing, data mining, image recognition and other technical services based on third-party platforms. This had a great impact on my life and career planning.

I'm always looking for a balance between life and work
In my spare time, I am keen on mountain climbing, marathon and other outdoor activities.
As a guitarist, I will record many songs when I feel inspired.

Why did I choose to pursue a PhD?
I want to be able to use artificial intelligence technology with a group of ambitious people in the future to develop a product that can better serve human life. This means that I need to have relatively high technical capabilities and a more cutting-edge technological vision.

Finally, I also won the following awards:

2006 Time Magazine Person of the Year

Winner of the 2008 Touching China Special Award

2022 Olympic winners

(Note: If you don’t believe it, you can search it yourself)





